Add encrypted access tokens (#143)
status-im/specs: docs/raw/push-notification-server.md

to achieve this functionality.

Because this can't be safely implemented in a privacy preserving manner, clients
MUST be given an option to opt-in to receiving and sending push notifications. They are disabled by default.

## Requirements

The party releasing the app, Status in this case, needs to run its own [gorush](https://github.com/appleboy/gorush)

> publicly accessible server for sending the actual notification. This cannot be community run as it requires sharing private credentials that only status has access to.

Reviewer: I wouldn't rule out the option that this could be run be the community at this point. I would just document that whatever entity wants to run a notification service is required to possess a certificate for the Apple Push Notification service: 

```suggestion
The party releasing the app needs to possess a certificate for the Apple Push Notification service and its has to run a [gorush](https://github.com/appleboy/gorush) publicly accessible server for sending the actual notification. 
```
Otherwise. looks good!

Reviewer 2: It appears that you are amending line 78 when I think you were aiming to give a suggestion for line 77

Also I'd replace "needs" with "MUST"

>The party releasing the app MUST to possess a certificate for the Apple Push Notification service and its has to run a [gorush](https://github.com/appleboy/gorush) publicly accessible server for sending the actual notification.

## Components

### Gorush instance

A [gorush](https://github.com/appleboy/gorush) instance MUST be publicly
available, this will be used only by push notification servers.

> ### Push notification server

Reviewer 3: Can we rename this to "Push Notification _Node_" to start avoiding further usage of the term server?

Reviewer 2: I'm curious, what is the benefit of avoiding the term "server"?

Author: I don't mind either, technically the lines are a bit blurred, as they both operate as waku clients, but there's definitely a client/server relationship, so happy to go with any that we decide

Reviewer 3: Ok, just that it's confusing/misleading to see a client/server relationship in a p2p network (e.g. mailserver vs history node). We can cast this as a special type of node that is queried by others today with the potential to merge this functionality into other nodes in network later.

```protobuf

message PushNotificationFilterSettings {
  boolean enabled = 1;

>   repeated string allowed_user_list = 2;

Reviewer 3: Does it make send to rename "user" to "key" here and elsewhere in this spec to distinguish the same user entity who may have multiple chat keys/identities? Given the whole protocol operates on keys, why not use that term itself? This will also be consistent with our move away from using "accounts" to "keys."

  repeated string blocked_chat_list = 3;
}

> message PushNotificationOptions {

Reviewer 3: Sorry, I might have earlier suggested renaming "DeviceToken" here but that seems to be more appropriate than "Options". It may be a bit confusing because we have this `token` along with `access_token` now.

  TokenType token_type = 1;
  string token = 2;
  string installation_id = 3;
  PushNotificationFilterSettings filter_settings = 4;
}

message PushNotificationPreferences {
  repeated PushNotificationOptions options = 1;
  uint version = 2;
  boolean unregister = 3;

>   string access_token = 4;

Reviewer 3: `access_token` should perhaps not be bundled under `PushNotificationPreferences`. Consider renaming or splitting message.

Author: I might do that in a separate PR if it's ok, I will be getting rid of a few messages in order to simplify and we can shuffle things around at that point if that's ok.

If `success` is `false`:

- If `MALFORMED_MESSAGE` is returned, the request SHOULD NOT be retried without ensuring

>   that is correctly formed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  that it is correctly formed.
```

> - If `INTERNAL_ERROR` is returned, the request MAY be retried, but the client MUST be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If `INTERNAL_ERROR` is returned, the request MAY be retried, but the client MUST 
```

  backoff exponentially
- If `VERSION_MISMATCH` is returned, the client SHOULD ensure that the version is incremented to beyond the remote version returned in preferences and then the request MAY be sent again

A client MAY register with multiple Push Notification Servers in order to increase availability.

A client SHOULD make sure that all the notification services they registered with have the same information about their devices and tokens.

If no response is returned the request SHOULD be considered failed and MAY be retried with the same server or a different one, but clients MUST exponentially backoff after each trial.

> If the request is successful a token is returned. This SHOULD be

Reviewer 3: Guess this goes away now that the access token is generated client side.

apart from the `hash` of the public key and the `version` of the last options,
in order to make sure that old messages are not processed.

> A client MAY unregister from a server on explicit logout if multiple accounts

Reviewer 3: Can we replace "accounts" with "chat keys"?

}
```

MUST be sent to the server. 
MUST be sent to the server.

The server MUST be checking the signature of the message and comparing

> that with the latest `PushNotificationPreferences` for the given public key.

Reviewer 3: Replace "public key" with "chat key"?

message PushNotificationQueryInfo {
  string access_token = 1;
  string installation_id = 2;

>   bytes public_key = 3;

Reviewer 3: Replace "public key" with "chat key"?

Author: That's a bit tricky,
I'd say, let's park the renaming for now and we will do in a different PR if it that's  ok with you.
The thing I am not sure is that not always this will be chat keys, for example in anonymous mode this are just keys that a user creates specifically for push notifications, but they are not chat keys.

Author: ok, so I have updated the references where we refer 100% to a chat key

Otherwise a response MUST NOT be sent.

If `allowed_user_list` is not set `access_token` MUST be set and `encrypted_access_tokens` MUST NOT
be set.

If `allowed_user_list` is set `encrypted_access_tokens` MUST be set and `access_token` MUST NOT be set.

> If `access_token` is returned, this SHOULD be used to send push notifications.

Reviewer 2: To avoid an ambiguous "this".

```suggestion
If `access_token` is returned, the `access_token` SHOULD be used to send push notifications.
```

[//]: TODO: Add more details on the exact encryption method, AES-CTR etc

If `encrypted_access_tokens` is returned, the client SHOULD decrypt each

> token by generating a `AES` symmetric key from the Diffie–Hellman between the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `encrypted_access_tokens` are returned, the client SHOULD decrypt each
token by generating an `AES` symmetric key from the Diffie–Hellman between the
```

> target client and the querying client.

Reviewer 3: ~target client and the querying client~
target client and itself.

> target client and the querying client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
target client and itself.
```

> target client and the querying client.

Reviewer 2: Does this sentence describe communication between a Push Notification Server and a client node? Or are we talking about p2p comms between clients?

The section seems to be about server / client querying, but this sentence seems to be about p2p comms. Perhaps add a sentence or subsection header to describe the difference between directly querying the server and client to client querying. Though I may be misunderstanding / missing the part where this distinction is made

Author: This describe a client querying a server,
although the definition of a server is a bit lose, any client can act as a push notification node(server) if it  wishes to do so, but that's probably a different matter.

Basically you pull the encrypted data from the server, and then you decrypt it taking into consideration your pk and the pk of the user who has registered with the server, but no direct communication between the two clients.

Reviewer 3: We could think of these as capabilities (history, relaying, notifications etc.) that can be implemented/enabled by various nodes without enforcing a strict client-server relationship.

> If a token is decrypted successfully it SHOULD be used to send push notifications.

Reviewer 3: (As discussed) We can add how to identify successful decryption - "If AES decryption succeeds it will return a valid uuid which is what is used for `access_token`."

If multiple server are available for a given push notification, only one notification
MUST be sent.
The sender SHOULD be listening on the topic derived from the first 4 bytes of `SHA3-256(ack_key)` and with
a waku AES symmetric encryption key of `ack_key`.

If no response is received

> in 3 seconds, it MAY be retried against a different server.

Reviewer 3: Why is "3 seconds" a good heuristic?

Author: Sounds like a good amount of time :)
I was thinking 1 sec for sending, 1 sec for receiving + 1 sec for processing time should give enough room in most cases, but can be changed

Reviewer 3: Good rule of thumb :) but perhaps technically defendable if we parameterise this in the spec so it can be changed depending on network congestion or node spec.

Author: how could we phrase this?
`in a reasonable amount of time given the current network conditions`?

Reviewer 3: Ideally have a config parameter `retry_period = 3s` with exponential backoff?

Author: We can make it configurable in the implementation, that's fine, what if instead we word it as:

```
If no response is received
a client SHOULD wait at least 3 seconds, after which the request MAY be retried against a different server
```
That way we only cap for a reasonable minimum and the client is free to wait longer if they wish to do so, taking into accounts network condidtions etc?

Reviewer 3: Sounds good, thanks.

Where platform is `1` for IOS and `2` for Firebase, according to the [gorush
documentation](https://github.com/appleboy/gorush)

> A server MUST be sending back a message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A server MUST return a response message:
```

A push notification preferences message describes the push notification options and tokens for all the devices associated with `PublicKeyClient`.

`options`: a list of `PushNotificationOptions`, one for each device owned by the user.

> `version`: an monotonically increasing number identifying the current `PushNotificationPreferences`. Any time anything is changed in the record it MUST be increased by the client, otherwise the request will not be accepted.

Reviewer 2: I has to Google that "monotonically" term.

`unregister`: whether the account should be unregistered
`access_token`: the access token that will be given to clients to send push notifications

#### Data disclosed

- Number of devices with push notifications enabled for a given public key
- The times a push notification record has been modified by the user

### PushNotificationOptions

`PushNotificationOptions` represent the token and preferences for a given device.

`token_type`: the type of token. Currently supported is `APN_TOKEN` for Apple Push
Notification service and `FIREBASE_TOKEN` for `Firebase`.
`token`: the actual push notification token sent by `Firebase` or `APN`
`installation_id`: the [`installation_id`](./2-account.md) of the device
`filter_setttings`: the push notification filters for this device.

#### Data disclosed

- Type of device owned by a given user
- The `FIREBASE` or `APN` push notification token

### PushNotificationFilterSettings

[//]: (Any of these can be sha3 in order not to store it on the server)

`enabled`: whether the device wants to be sent push notifications
`allowed_user_list`: a list of `access_token` encrypted with the key generated

> by the AES key generated by Diffie–Hellman between the publisher and the allowed

Reviewer 3: ~encrypted with the key generated by the AES key generated~
encrypted with the AES key generated

> `allowed_user_list`: a list of `access_token` encrypted with the key generated
> by the AES key generated by Diffie–Hellman between the publisher and the allowed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`allowed_user_list`: a list of `access_token` encrypted with the AES key generated
 by Diffie–Hellman between the publisher and the allowed
```

A client MAY disclose:

- The hash of the chat_ids they want to filter out

When running in anonymous mode, the client's public key is not disclosed.

When querying a push notification server a client will disclose:

> - The fact that is interested in sending push notification to a given client,

Reviewer 3: ~The fact that is~
The fact that it is

> - The fact that is interested in sending push notification to a given client,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The fact that it is interested in sending push notification to a given client,
```

> - The fact that is interested in sending push notification to a given client,
>   but their public key is not disclosed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- That it is interested in sending push notification to another given client,
  but the querying client's public key is not disclosed
```

the advertisement as that's effectively a broadcast, but those info should not change and we can
always accrete the message.

### Why ack_key?

That's necessary to avoid duplicated push notifications and allow for the retry
in case the notification is not successful.

> Deduplication of the push notification is done on the client side, to relive a bit

Reviewer 3: ~relive~
reduce

> Deduplication of the push notification is done on the client side, to relive a bit

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deduplication of the push notification is done on the client side, to reduce a bit
```
